README.md, before:

# JobBoard

Live Website can be found on my <a href="https://richardgeek.com">Portfolio</a>

## **Overview**
JobBoard is a job listing platform . This application allows users to browse and apply for jobs, while companies can create, edit, manage their job postings and view applicants for their job.

---

## **Features**

### **For Users**
1. **User Authentication**: 
   - Register and login securely using JWT-based authentication.
2. **Browse Jobs**: 
   - View job postings from all companies.
   - Filter job listings based on location, salary, experience level, title, and modality (remote, hybrid, or onsite).
3. **Interact with Jobs**: 
   - Like job posts.
   - Apply for jobs.
4. **View Job Details**:
   - Access detailed information about a job (e.g., description, requirements).

### **For Companies**
1. **Manage Job Posts**:
   - Create new job postings.
   - Edit or delete existing postings.
   - View all Candidates that applied for your Job
2. **Dashboard**:
   - View a list of all jobs posted by the company.

---

## **Tech Stack**

### **Frontend**
- **React.js**: For building a responsive and interactive user interface.
- **CSS Frameworks**: TailwindCSS.

### **Backend**
- **Node.js**: JavaScript runtime for server-side programming.
- **Express.js**: Framework for building RESTful APIs.

### **Database**
- **MongoDB**: NoSQL database for managing users, jobs, and applications.

### **Authentication**
- **JWT (JSON Web Tokens)**: For secure user sessions.

---

## **Project Structure**
```plaintext
JobBoard/
│
├── client/             # Frontend
│   ├── public/
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/ # Reusable components (Navbar, Footer, etc.)
│   │   ├── pages/      # Pages (Home, Login, JobDetails, Dashboard, etc.)
│   │   ├── context/    # Global state management
│   │   └── utils/      # Utility functions (API requests, validations)
│   └── package.json
│
├── server/             # Backend
│   ├── controllers/    # Business logic for routes
│   ├── models/         # MongoDB models (User, JobPost, etc.)
│   ├── routes/         # Route definitions
│   ├── middlewares/    # Authentication and validation middlewares
│   ├── utils/          # Helper functions (e.g., JWT handling)
│   └── server.js       # Entry point for the server
│
└── package.json
```

---

## **Endpoints**

### **Authentication**
- `POST /auth/register`: User registration.
- `POST /auth/login`: User login.

### **Jobs**
- `GET /jobs`: Fetch all job postings with optional filters.
- `GET /jobs/:id`: Fetch details of a specific job.
- `POST /jobs`: Create a new job post (company only).
- `PUT /jobs/:id`: Edit a job post (company only).
- `DELETE /jobs/:id`: Delete a job post (company only).

### **User Interactions**
- `POST /jobs/:id/like`: Like a job post.
- `POST /jobs/:id/apply`: Apply for a job.

### **Candidate Dashboard**
- `GET /my-jobs`: List all jobs the authenticated candidate has applied for.

### **Company Dashboard**
- `GET /my-jobs`: List all jobs created by the authenticated company.
- `GET /my-jobs/:id/applicants`: View all Applicant for a Specific job Posted by the Authenticated company

---


## **Roadmap**
- **Phase 1**: Core functionalities (user and company features, job postings, filters).
- **Phase 2**: Add user profile pages and job application tracking.
- **Phase 3**: Implement notifications and email integration.

---

Commit message:

fixed companies not being able to view applicant resume

README.md, after:

# JobBoard

Live Website can be found on my <a href="https://richardgeek.com">Portfolio</a>

## **Overview**
JobBoard is a job listing platform . This application allows users to browse and apply for jobs, while companies can create, edit, manage their job postings and view applicants for their job.

---

## **Features**

### **For Users**
1. **User Authentication**: 
   - Register and login securely using JWT-based authentication.
2. **Browse Jobs**: 
   - View job postings from all companies.
   - Filter job listings based on location, salary, experience level, title, and modality (remote, hybrid, or onsite).
3. **Interact with Jobs**: 
   - Like job posts.
   - Apply for jobs.
4. **View Job Details**:
   - Access detailed information about a job (e.g., description, requirements).

### **For Companies**
1. **Manage Job Posts**:
   - Create new job postings.
   - Edit or delete existing postings.
   - View all Candidates that applied for your Job
2. **Dashboard**:
   - View a list of all jobs posted by the company.

---

## **Tech Stack**

### **Frontend**
- **React.js**: For building a responsive and interactive user interface.
- **CSS Frameworks**: TailwindCSS.

### **Backend**
- **Node.js**: JavaScript runtime for server-side programming.
- **Express.js**: Framework for building RESTful APIs.

### **Database**
- **MongoDB**: NoSQL database for managing users, jobs, and applications.
- **AWS S3**: Database for storing Applicants Resume for Easy accessibility by Companies.

### **Authentication**
- **JWT (JSON Web Tokens)**: For secure user sessions.

---

## **Project Structure**
```plaintext
JobBoard/
│
├── client/             # Frontend
│   ├── public/
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── components/ # Reusable components (Navbar, Footer, etc.)
│   │   ├── pages/      # Pages (Home, Login, JobDetails, Dashboard, etc.)
│   │   ├── context/    # Global state management
│   │   └── utils/      # Utility functions (API requests, validations)
│   └── package.json
│
├── server/             # Backend
│   ├── controllers/    # Business logic for routes
│   ├── models/         # MongoDB models (User, JobPost, etc.)
│   ├── routes/         # Route definitions
│   ├── middlewares/    # Authentication and validation middlewares
│   ├── utils/          # Helper functions (e.g., JWT handling)
│   └── server.js       # Entry point for the server
│
└── package.json
```

---

## **Endpoints**

### **Authentication**
- `POST /auth/register`: User registration.
- `POST /auth/login`: User login.

### **Jobs**
- `GET /jobs`: Fetch all job postings with optional filters.
- `GET /jobs/:id`: Fetch details of a specific job.
- `POST /jobs`: Create a new job post (company only).
- `PUT /jobs/:id`: Edit a job post (company only).
- `DELETE /jobs/:id`: Delete a job post (company only).

### **User Interactions**
- `POST /jobs/:id/like`: Like a job post.
- `POST /jobs/:id/apply`: Apply for a job.

### **Candidate Dashboard**
- `GET /my-jobs`: List all jobs the authenticated candidate has applied for.

### **Company Dashboard**
- `GET /my-jobs`: List all jobs created by the authenticated company.
- `GET /my-jobs/:id/applicants`: View all Applicant for a Specific job Posted by the Authenticated company

---


## **Roadmap**
- **Phase 1**: Core functionalities (user and company features, job postings, filters).
- **Phase 2**: Add user profile pages and job application tracking.
- **Phase 3**: Implement notifications and email integration.

---
